---
layout: post
title: 'Germany Mulls Reintroduction of Compulsory Military Service: My Thoughts'
---

Germany has been actively debating the reintroduction of conscription. Here are my thoughts on the matter.

Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Germany has been actively debating the revival of conscription. Many Germans, particularly older generations who are not at risk of frontline service, support the reintroduction of compulsory military service for younger people. These proponents argue that Germany made a mistake by abolishing the draft in 2011, but the current geopolitical climate has prompted a reconsideration of that decision. 

It is important to note, however, that even when conscription was in place, young men in Germany had the option of fulfilling their duty through alternative civil services, such as working in retirement homes or with the Red Cross. This means that Germany's military service was never truly compulsory in the strictest sense, as there was always a non-military option available. Many Germans seem to misunderstand this distinction, thinking of the service as mandatory when it was not entirely so.

Interestingly, many of the patriotic Germans who advocate for the reintroduction of compulsory service have themselves never served in the military. One such individual, when asked why he did not serve, explained that his mother did not want him to because it was dangerous. This same person has criticized me for avoiding the draft, unaware that I already served in a different country's military under more hazardous conditions. He didn't know this because, unlike the few Germans I met who served in the Bundeswehr and often exaggerate their service —even if it involved just holding a broom in the Airfarce— to impress the Fräuleins, my experience was quite different. Unlike them, I do not openly boast about it at social gatherings. While some might boast about their time in the military, my service involved real responsibilities and challenges, unlike what I perceive as the less rigorous environment of the German military/kindergarten. Unlike the Bundeswehr with its [hardcore drinking rituals and consumption of alcohol among troops](https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/blogs/new-atlanticist/german-soldiers-too-fat-and-drunk-to-fight/), we underwent constant psychological resilience and mental toughness training. The emphasis on discipline and specialized training was crucial to our military effectiveness. Some might even describe the training methods and settings we endured as hazing. Although these experiences seemed unbearable at the time, they undoubtedly built resilience and toughness.

The German military, or Bundeswehr, has been criticized for its lack of rigorous training and preparedness. Soldiers are spoiled with extensive facilities management, outsourced security, and provided limited access to live ammunition for training, leading to a lack of real combat readiness. Soldiers in the Bundeswehr don't even have to go to a shooting range because the German military doesn't have enough bullets. Instead, soldiers have to pretend to shoot and then yell "bam!". I shit you not. I feel sorry for German soldiers when it comes time to protect their country. Imagine being sent to the front lines without ammo and no real training. I would be pissed. 

In contrast, my experience serving as an officer in the Greek military involved serious training, proper equipment, and real operational challenges, partly due to the ongoing tensions with Turkey. Greece faces continuous threats of war from its neighbor, Turkey. In contrast, Germany's military history is marked by its involvement in numerous conflicts, all of which ended in defeat. This pattern stands in stark contrast to Greece's military record, where Greek forces have successfully repelled aggressors, including the Turks, Italians, and Germans.

> "Until now we used to say that the Greeks fight like heroes. Now we shall say: Heroes fight like Greeks." 
> 
> Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill 

In terms of firepower, the German military's capabilities sounds like a bad joke. According to [reports](https://www.stern.de/politik/deutschland/oberst-a-d---bundeswehr-hat-nur-fuer-zwei-tage-artillerie-munition-32964800.html), Germany's stockpile of artillery ammunition would be depleted within merely two days of conflict. Additionally, the [few battle tanks](https://www.statista.com/statistics/1294391/nato-tank-strength-country/) and armored personnel carriers the Germany owns are being withdrawn due to their [unsuitability for accommodating pregnant personnel](https://www.faz.net/aktuell/wirtschaft/unternehmen/puma-panzer-buerokratie-und-sonderwuensche-verteuern-und-verzoegern-13405087.html).

Even among german "professional" soldiers there is a spike in German troop numbers asking not to be sent to war. Based on [this](https://www.dw.com/en/spike-in-german-troop-numbers-asking-not-to-be-sent-to-war/a-64302012) article, the number of German Bundeswehr soldiers who asked to be exempted from serving in war zones rose markedly in 2022. As long as there is at least one paid Bundeswehr "soldier" receiving benefits such as comprehensive healthcare and a robust pension plan, who is not willing to fullfill her contract obligations while collecting her paycheck, why should I be forced to die for them in a warzone? 

Given these circumstances, I would be reluctant to serve in the Bundeswehr without significant improvements and incentives. For me to consider such service, I would require:

- A fully detached house in a desirable neighborhood with my own garden, reflecting the property ownership typical of older Germans. Why would I want to serve a country and protect it when I myself don't own any property to protect? I am not going to risk my life protecting some random German's villa in the suburbs while I cannot afford housing because boomers messed it all up. I will not be sent to the front lines while my rich landlords increase my rent from a remote safe spot.
- Genuine and comprehensive military training. I'm not sure this is going to happen, given the Bundeswehr's level of incompetence.
- A substantial daily salary of 10 million euros. If you ask a politician how much their life is worth, they would likely say it is priceless. However, I am more pragmatic and would settle for considerably less: 10 million euros for each day served, recognizing the value of the risk involved.
- I might consider it if every last one of the privileged [children of politicians](https://www.politico.eu/article/helicopter-flight-revives-attacks-on-german-defense-minister-as-key-election-looms/) and wealthy German aristocrats also served on the front lines.

Come to think of it, forget about those demands. Let the Germans defend their golden villas and Porsches on their own. Unlike the average German, I am not as fortunate; I neither own a house nor a car, and I have no family in this country. So what is there to protect and fight for? Therefore, I would choose not to serve under the aforementioned conditions and would prefer to leave the country instead. Moreover, I have already sworn an oath of allegiance to another more tolerate country.

In summary, the call for compulsory military service in Germany raises several issues, including the need for better training and clearer understanding of what true compulsory service entails. Any proposal to reinstate conscription must address these concerns to be credible and fair.